Here are some comments on the Token Word paper (first of two batches):

* The title and abstract seem to imply the main contribution of the work is
the speed with which you were able to implement the xanalogical ideas.
However, I think this emphasis is misplaced. IMO, the main scientific
contribution is as a proof of concept implementation of multiple
simultaneous xanalogical ideas (the text in the introduction supports this).
So, I'd be tempted to title the paper something like, "token_word: A
Xanalogical Storage and Authoring System", thereby emphasizing system
qualities, rather than implementation time.

I know you want to get across the point that "this Xanalogical storage stuff
isn't that tough nowadays." I think you still make this point pretty
strongly in the text of the paper, even when it's not stressed in the
title -- people will notice, believe me.

Reviewers will be looking for a scientific contribution that's more than
just how fast the system was implemented. If you had developed some new
technology that made implementation really fast, then the paper would focus
on that new technology, and that would be good. But, since you're using
preexisting technology, the fact that you did it fast just means that you're
a really good programmer -- not exactly a generalizable scientific
discovery. The claims at the end of the Introduction are really good, and
right-on. They just need to make their way back into the abstract.

* It's a bit unusual to have a URL in the abstract -- this usually goes
towards the end of the paper.

Introduction: some in the hypertext community might claim that they have
already developed a system that incorporates the majority of the Xanadu
ideas. I certainly don't know of any that support transclusion and
micropayments at the same time, though.


* Section 3: "Given these
precedents, we believe that token word could be scaled into
a globally accessible system, albeit with minor code modi?-
cations and a su?cient hardware investment."

This sounds a little naive, since there are many tales of seemingly scalable
systems that didn't. I recommend softening this claim, since it isn't
central, saying something like, "Thus the current architecture shows promise
for scaling to large document collections."


* Section 3.1 -- since you have the room, in the text add a description of
the process of taking a quotation from a document (i.e., expanding a little
bit on the caption of Figure 2)


* Section 3.1 -- provide more detail on Figure 3 in the text. You might also
want to provide some motivating text -- why is this the best possible
interface for the quotations?


* Since you have an implicit scenario in your figures 1-5, you might want to
make this scenario explicit in the text.


* You need to provide a little more detail on how quote contexts emulate
links (last paragraph before 3.2). If I hadn't seen the system demo, I
wouldn't have understood the text in this section.



--- end of first batch of comments ---

* Section 3.2.4 - "Our system, in its current form, is still functional
in terms of its goal: it can potentially support thousands
of users and hundreds of thousands of documents..."

The use of CGI adds some strong scalability limitations to the system, since
each user accesss is relatively heavyweight. The line above makes it sound
like you can handle thousands of simultaneous users, which this architecture
couldn't support without a *lot* of performance tweaking. Again, since
scalability isn't central to your point, I wouldn't stress scalability that
much, since you currently have a weak scalability story, lacking large-scale
experience.

* Section 4 - do you ever explicitly state the text to token conversion
rate, or how this is set? Can there be variable pricing in the system, with
some content costing more than other content?


* Section 4.1 - might want to explain the example in a little more detail.
Took me a minute to understand how you got from the first to the second
table.


* You might want to explicitly reference the Udanax Gold project.

* Might the Literate Programming ideas be viewed as related work? Not sure
here.


GOT HERE (whew!)


Overall, very nicely written paper, very smooth narrative flow. I like the
tone of the paper. It'll be really interesting to see what kinds of comments
you get back on this...

- Jim